Cuando en el resultado de una consulta se desea mostrar la información concatenada utilizamos la palabra CONCAT, 
y para crear una columna temporal en la cual se mostrarán los resultados concatenados 
usamos la cláusula AS, la cual nos permite definir un alias para almacenar los datos temporales.

--- CONCAT is to unite two or more columns in a single column in the result of a query
SELECT CONCAT(columna1,'separador',columna2) AS columna_temporal FROM nombre_tabla;
This fo MySQL 

SELECT CONCAT(nombre, ' ', apellido) AS empleados FROM empleado; --will show the full names of employees in a single column named "empleados".

-- Whe we want to show only one register as result is necessary to use WHERE clause
SELECT nombre_columnas 
FROM nombre_tablas 
WHERE condición;

- A question here ¿why select is alone? Because it means all columns

SELECT * 
FROM empleado
WHERE ci='123456789';

SELECT nombre, apellido 
FROM empleado --- This means that we use the table empleado and we want to show only the columns nombre and apellido
WHERE sexo !='M'; -- != means not equal


SELECT nombre, apellido
FROM empleado
WHERE sexo='F';

-- What is and? It is a logical operator that allows us to combine two or more conditions in the WHERE clause.
-- What is or? It is another logical operator that allows us to specify multiple conditions,


WHERE dno=dnumero --- what means dno? dno is a column in the table empleado


SELECT ci, nombre, apellido
FROM empleado, departamento
WHERE dno=dnumero
    dnombre='Administrativo' -- THere is something wrong here what is it? dnombre is not in the table empleado
Error Code: 1064. You have an error in your SQL syntax; check the manual that corresponds to your MySQL server version for the right syntax to use near 'dnombre='Administrativo'' at line 4 -- What i have to do?

SELECT ci, nombre, apellido
FROM empleado, departamento
WHERE dno=id_numero and
	id_nombre='administrativo'

-- was missing the (and) logical connector in WHERE statement

DISTINCT --- Why use this clause when the same register is repeated multiple times and we want to eliminate the duplicate values, (this applies only in one column)
DISTINCT --- Can be used with the functions SUM( ), COUNT(), AVG(), MAX(), MIN(), its no apllicable with MAX() and MIN() OR MIN() because it will return the same value

SELECT DISTINCT nombre_columna
FROM nombre_tabla; --This is the normal form

SELECT DISTINCT eci --- What is eci? It is a column in the table carga_f / what is select? It is a command to show data
FROM trabaja_en; --- What if from? It indicates the table where the column is located

SELECT eci
FROM trabaja_en

--- inquiries (consults) with null values
-- What is null? It is a special marker used in SQL to indicate that a data value does not exist in the database.
-- To check for null values we use the IS NULL or IS

SELECT nombre_columnas -- What is this? It is a command to show data
FROM nombre_tabla -- What is this? It indicates the table where the column is located
WHERE nombre_columna is NULL -- What is this? It is a condition to filter the results and show only the rows where the specified column has null values

SELECT ci, nombre, apellido, superci
FROM empleado
WHERE superci IS NULL; -- What is superci? It is a column in the table empleado /
-- What does do this query? It shows the ci, nombre, apellido, and superci of employees who do not have a supervisor (superci is null).
-- What is the function of where clause? It filters the results to include only those rows where the superci column is null.
-- What is the function of NULL here? It indicates the absence of a value in the superci column.

SELECT ci, nombre, apellido, superci
FROM empleado
WHERE superci IS NULL; 

-- This is the format for select null values
-- the format to select not null values is this

SELECT nombre_columnas
FROM nombre_tabla
WHERE nombre_columna IS NOT NULL;

-- 